#labels Featured
#general readme file for microblog-purple

= Introduction =

This is a plug-in for Pidgin or any other LibPurple base client like Adium or Finch. At least for now it works for Pidgin and Finch. I am not sure about Adium but hopefully someone will test it. Currently the plug-in works with Twitter only.

So what's the different between this and Twitter IM? The answer is this would be kind of my personal replacement for Twitter IM, since I spent sometimes waiting for the service to come back and don't want to wait anymore. Besides, having it as plug-in give me some liberty to customize it in many ways. Like modifying the message to link to hashtags or twitter user (thanks @chanwit), or the ability to add special command to itself (/refresh, /replies, /etc....). I plan to have this in "Chat mode" instead of normal conversation windows for people who easily annoy with constant incoming messages.

The plug-in is inspired by [http://code.google.com/p/pidgin-facebookchat/ FacebookChat project]

= Installation =
== Linux ==

For Ubuntu 8.04 Hardy Heron, we have PPA repository.

{{{
deb http://ppa.launchpad.net/sugree/ubuntu hardy main
deb-src http://ppa.launchpad.net/sugree/ubuntu hardy main
}}}

Simply install `pidgin-microblog`.

{{{
sudo apt-get install pidgin-microblog
}}}

= Building the code =
== Windows build ==
 # Follow [http://developer.pidgin.im/wiki/BuildingWinPidgin Building on Windows HOWTO]
 # Download microblog-purple source code, untar and place it in your $HOME.
 # `cd microblog-purple-x.x`
 # Edit global.mak, especially the PIDGIN_TREE_TOP variable to match your pidgin source directory. 
 # `make && make install`
 # The built dll (libtwitter.dll) will be installed at <pidgin source dir>/win32-install-dir/plugins. All images will be installed there too. Run the new pidgin from `win32-install-dir` directory and it'll just work. You can copy the generated libtwitter.dll to your normal Pidgin installation directory. Don't forget to also copy all png images to the correct path.
 # If you want to build windows installer, type `make windist` instead.

== Linux build ==
 # You will need to have libpurple and pidgin headers first. For Ubuntu, these are libpurple-dev and pidgin-dev packages
 # Download microblog-purple source code and untar it somewhere
 # `cd microblob-purple-x.x && make && make install`
 # The executable will be installed in your pidgin plug-in installation dir, detected from pkg-config command. You can also modify variable and path in global.mak